Let me just give you a little bit of
background about the Flexbox grid system
and how it works and
then we'll jump into the next code pen and
we'll build a grid system using this.
So, the way we wanna think about the grid
system with Flexbox is that we're
going to have a series of boxes.
Whatever they happen to be, they have
some kind of content inside of them, and
your HTML may look something like this.
I'm using just the div element here
because they're clearly no content,
no meaning whatsoever.
This does not have to be divs.
And in fact, in a moment,
you'll see we do things with figures or
you could do articles and sections and
any of the HTML elements.
But the critical piece of this
HTML is that you have one element
that wraps around it all,
that's the parent, the flex container.
And you're gonna have the individual
boxes, those are the flex items or
the children.
And so that's the way
the HTML would look for that.
The CSS winds up looking
something like this.
So on the row the parent we're
going to say display flex,
we do a flex flow of row wrap.
Justify the content however we want to
justify it, it might be center it might be
space between something else, and
then you can also set up a gap.
This is a new property in Flexbox, you may
be familiar if you know a little bit about
CSS Grid,
there used to be a thing called grid gap.
Now it is all just gap,
gap on the grid side and
on the Flexbox side gap is a new
property that's available to us.
So you can in fact specify
a gap now inside of Flexbox.
Then for your individual boxes,
you can set up a series of flex basis,
this is not real code here.
I need a whole lot more stuff,
a lot of media queries in order for
this to actually be a real thing.
But the idea is that you can set
your flex spaces to one size for
desktop, a larger size for a tablet,
and a really big size for the phone.
That's typically the way you
would set this kind of thing up.
So, that's the way the code is going to
look broadly speaking as we start to set
up a Flexbox based grid system.
And if you take a look at Bootstrap and
Foundation and UI Kit and
all the rest of them, you will discover
that they use Flexbox in this very way.
Okay, you can also rearrange your columns.
That is something else we're gonna try
here in our Flexbox grid system in just
a moment so that you can put things in
order that are appropriate to your HTML,
to search engine optimization.
That you have the important information
listed first in the source order,
the less important
information listed later, and
then just reorder using the order
property inside of Flexbox.
All right, so
we are on to chapter two in our notes.
And so this is divided up this next
exercise that we're going to do,
we're going to try three pieces of this.
So the first thing that we're going to do,
we're going to build
a desktop based system only.
Just so you can see how this works without
having to deal with media queries.
Then we'll go back and
retrofit our grid system so
that does in fact work
across different devices.
So we'll add the media queries and
make changes to our values.
And then I have a little challenge for
you to try, so
that is the order of the next few
things that we're going to do here.
So let's start here by
part 2A: Desktop only and
says the Starting CodePen, and
this is the layout that we have here.
So as you'll see, we have got a whole
bunch of these beautiful boxes,
aren't they lovely?
And they're all different colors and
they have this lovely SVG
based background, okay?
And they're all just stacked on top of
each other because we have no layout code
here present.
So let's just check out our HTML first.
So you'll notice that I have
a series of comments here.
We have one row or one box per column,
we're going to build a four column layout.
And as we scroll down, here's we have
two boxes, each spanning two columns.
So this is what we're gonna code.
And so forth, there's five rows in all,
you can just read the comments there.
For each unit of content,
we have it set up as follows,
this might be a new HTML element to you,
this is the figure element.
And figures are incredibly
useful HTML elements.
They start with figure,
they end with figure, and
inside of them you might be under
the that conception that a figure would
have an image and
then some text that goes underneath.
The image would be in an image tag and
the text underneath would
be in the fig caption tag.
However, you can use figures for
a whole bunch of different things.
So you see here I don't actually have
an image I just have a div with a class
of one that has the styling that
makes the textured background and
the color and so forth.
I'll show you that in a second.
You could do this with the pre-element,
the pre-element, and
you could put an ASCII art,
that would be one way you could do this.
You could use the pre-element,
maybe the code element,
you could put in some code here as
an example with a caption underneath.
You can reverse the order of these,
you can have the figure caption first and
whatever it is you're demonstrating later.
You can have multiple images
inside of your figure.
So in other words, you could either put up
a nice layout of some number of images,
or you could do something
like an image carousel or
some other interactive kind of image.
So figures are incredibly useful, and
what they are intended to indicate
is that this is a unit of content.
So we have a graphic or code or something
then an explanation that goes with it.
That is the right semantic markup for
that type of thing.
Okay, so it's pretty much like
this all the way through.
I've got some notes in here,
we'll go through all of that in detail.
And then down here in the CSS,
let's look at what we've got.
I've got an empty spot here where
we'll start writing some CSS.
But I've already given you some obviously,
so just so you know what's here we
have our border box declaration
that I described to you earlier.
And then underneath of that we have
the body tag, turning off our padding.
It looks like I didn't turn off the
margin, hm, wonder why I didn't do that.
We turn off the border,
we have a font family and then,
I have a background that happens
to be a gradient background here.
The figure itself has
a little bit of margin and
padding associated with
it which I've turned off.
Here's the caption styling,
just the background color, a color and
a little bit of padding
to make it look pretty.
Here is a style that's going
to reduce some of the margins.
Remember that H2 in particular by default
has a big margin associated with it.
This reduces all of those margins to half
a rem with this particular selector,
makes it look pretty and symmetrical.
And then we've got this is
the textured background here.
The texture comes right from
within code pen itself,
it's something you can just download and
plug in.
So here it is, it's an SVG, and
this is the formula that makes it display.
I've set a minimum height on these,
again, just for demonstration purposes.
If I didn't put in a minimum height
with this kind of background SVG,
you wouldn't see it at all, right?
Because it has no actual
content inside of that div, so
you would just see nothing, so
we have to put in a little bit of height.
And then each of these
have a class associated
with them which give
them a different color.
So that's the code here
that we have to start with.
All right, so with this HTML let's
start with our first row here.
We wanna have one box per column.
We are going to have 4 columns
going across the page,
the reason I pick 4 columns it's
a nice symmetrical number and
all of the responsive design
frameworks use 12 columns on the page.
It's a lot of work to code 12 columns, and
I'm not sure you actually learn a whole
lot more by going all the way
up to 12 than you do using 4.
So what we're going to do first here
is what I like to do is this, I
actually like to click the little triangle
right next to each of those figures.
And you'll just condense them
into a single line of code.
So you can think about those
as those are our boxes,
we don't actually need to
add any HTML inside of them.
Those are our four boxes.
If those then our boxes on the page,
we need to have a parent around them
to give them flex powers, right?
So to do that we're going to put a div
around this with a class of row, why div?
Because this is doing nothing
except holding a class for us.
It's not trying to convey any
meaning here whatsoever, okay?
So div with a class of row series of
figures that come inside of it, right?
We can do the same type of thing here for
all of our other examples.
So here in row two, let's do that again,
div with a class of row.
That's going to go around to figures.
So again, nothing is going to happen,
we haven't written any CSS to deal
with this row that we're writing here.
It's just going on along down the page.
In row three, we have a big box and
a little box.
Still a div with a class of row.
/div, and then here in row four,
we've got just a single box that's
gonna span all the way across the page.
We can still do that with Flexbox.
And then finally in row five
we're gonna have small,
bigger, small going across our row.
So let's set that up as well,
div with a class of row.
Okay, so the person who was asking
before how do you keep some
number of boxes on the row,
this is the way that you would do it.
We're artificially
constraining them using HTML.
And so we've specified exactly
where each row should occur,
now we're gonna write the CSS to make
it look the way we want it to look.
Okay, so in our CSS box here,
clearly we need to make a row class.
And so this is going to start
with a display of flex and
a flex flow of row rap,
just like I told you before.
By default, it'll do a row, but
by default it'll also do no wrap,
we do actually want it to
wrap on to other lines.
Then I want to say justify
content space between.
Okay it looks a little
odd at the moment but
just putting the space
in between the boxes.
And then we can add to this a gap of 4%.
So, in some of my previous courses,
we've actually had to calculate
what this gap is and work with it.
Now we can actually just declare it like
this with this new gap property which is
really nice.
Obviously that's not quite
the look we were looking for, so
let's continue writing some CSS here.
So if I just say my figure has
a flex basis of something like 22%,
that will go ahead and
put my boxes here all on the first row.